In Last video we set up these little check boxes here that
displays all the permissions. In this video we actually
going to hook them up so that if the user has that
permission, it will show as checked and if the user does not
have that it will show as unchecked. Now we are actually
going to code up the mutations that allows us to update
somebody specific permission. First thing I am going to do
is hop into our capital P permission that Jas in. Lets just
set some prop types up. Import PropTypes from Prop-types
and lets go down to not our permission component but are
user component we have here, lets set the PpropTypes on
there so Static PropTypes equals to that to the one Prop
that this user needs is that user being passed in. Now
normally when you pass in an object like that you might
do something like a PropTypes dot Object dot IsRequired
and that will make sure that object is passed in. But we can
take it little step further and actually shape it because we
know that in order to pass in a user, we need their name ,
email, Id and permissions so we can actually shape the
PropTypes to have those sub fields. So say PropType dot
shapes and inside of that we can go on set further and will
say the Name is going to be PropTypes dot string
and then the email is going to be PropTypes dot string and
the Id
PropTypes dot string and then finally the permissions is
going to be PropTypes dot array and we can make this whole
thing is required on top of that and that way when you
pass in the user it's going to check that it has an object
with all of these fields and they are all in the correct
type that we have. Good. Next thing that we need to do
is to set some initial state so idea here is that our
permissions
loops over all of the users and then we need to inject the
permissions into the specific user and set sort of like a
what's called C Data and we are going to set the permissions
internally in this user. So we want to go, lets go right
below the static PropTypes and say state is equal to
curly brackets and inside there we are going to set the
permissions. Now the permissions are going to be set from
props so say this dot props dot user dot Permissions, now
let me talk about this real quick because there is sort of a
no no or bad practice in reacting, that is don't use props
to populate initial state and the reason behind that is
because here I am taking the props that are being fed into
the user
and setting them into state. Now if they were to ever change
at the higher level, they will not be updated into state and
then you end up with this problem that you never want to
have in React which is you have differing data in two
different spots.You always want to have one source of truth.
However, this is totally fine in this used case because we
are seeding that data meaning the initial data is coming
from props but then whenever somebody changes a permission
inside of the user then its going to be updated to the state
and then when you click save its going to be sent off to the
backend. So this is totally fine when we use it as seeding
of an initial state and then if this were to be changed up
top that will never actually happen in our used case but if
it were it does not matter because we have our own internal
state. Good. So that is the that is the state and I am going
to open up Reactive tools. Bit of an error here, lets come
back and address these in just a second and these warnings
that we can hit. Lets go to React search for a user
component , you see that we have all 4 of our, this is
another user component may be we should have named it
something little bit different. Lets say that we change that
real quick. We call it User permissions so , here we go
now they are called User Permissions and you see that out
State now has an array of each of the different permissions
that each one has. All of them have user and the one that we
initially changed has a user and admin.Good. Lets fix these
little errors that we have gone on here. First warning
Component declare PropTypes instead of PropTypes, Did you
misspelled the property assignment. I probably did. Thank
you very much. Where did I do that. That looks like in my
user component not even the one we are working on, where we
got PropTypes. Here we go. User dot lowercase P. It's kind
of, its annoys me a lot where its Capital P proptypes is the
package, property is lowercase P, Capital T and the package
you imported in is prop dash types. Its always get me . So
that one should be fixed. Lets give it a refresh. That works
and then in this one each child in an array or iterator
needs a unique key prop, check the render method of query.
So lets take a look here.Looks like its this loop right
here, this th needs a key so just say key equal to and then
again key always needs to be something that is unique and in
our case the permission is going to be unique so that should
solve that. Lets see if any more pop up.
One more.
Line 29.
Anytime you have a loop over anything so this one as well,
we probably need to put in a key in here as well so key is
equal to, we will use the user Id in this case because that
is going to be unique. We got one more popping up here and
that's likely because we are mapping. Anytime you map you
probably you need to put in a key so say key is equal to
permission. That's going to be unique for that one and they
all gone. Hurray.Ok so we are in a good shape there so we
set the Prop text, we set the stuff to initial state, now
lets work on getting this Input here checked. We set the
checked attribute, if I set that to Checked equal to true
You will see that they all checked in. If I were to remove
this, they all will UnChecked. But we want to do is that we
want to have little condition here that says that this dot
state dot permissions
dot includes because its an array and
then if it include the current permission that we are
looping over
and that should just check the one. So it will
always check against the state that it has and you will see
that the Admin and User of the one we worked on is checked
and rest just have the user.Now if we open up depth tools,
we are going to see little error here. Says Failed propType
you provided a Checked prop without an on change handler
that was rendered a read only field and watch this If I
check them they will immediately uncheck themselves and
that because if you tie the value or the checked attribute
of an input to something that is in state then you need to
go to state that actually make that thing to check or
unCheck. That's exactly what we are going to do right now.
We go right beside this checked right here and first of all
we are going to say value of this input going to be
permission and then we need to add in onChange handler so
that one someone does check in we can put that value into
state or when someone Unchecks in then we can take that
value out of State. And then that will allow us to then
update the UI so on Change and we will just shell that off
to a separate methods. So this dot handle permission change
and up above render we will make that handle permission
change , its going to be an error function as we need access
to this and inside here just Console dot log , we need to
pass the event here and just console the log the event.
Now you see when I click one of these we get this event
happening right here , if we were to console log the event
dot target, when that happens,
you see that we get the
actual input and then we actually have access to the value
of the target as well as the checked attribute of whether
or not the user was checking it. So let me clear this out
here and I am going to check item Create and it says Item
create and true and if I have to that over and over again
its always going to say true that because I am not able to
actually set it to checked but in here what we need to do
is either add this permission to our permission state or
remove it from our permission state and that will in turn
actually update the Input UI that we have here. So lets get
rid of these console logs and lets just get a Check Box
variable, so CheckBox is equal to e dot target and then
we take a copy
of the current permissions
we will call that
Updated permissions and the way you can copy an array very
efficiently in Java Script is that you can spread this dot
state dot permissions, again the reason why we don't just
say this dot state dot permission is that , that is just
going to create a variable that reference the state and you
know in Reactive that you never want to mutate, you never
want to update State directly, You always want to take a
copy of state, update you data and then put it back into
State. So in our case here, we simply just going to take a
copy and this will this will take a top levels copy of all
of the items that are inside of the permissions. Lets just
console log that update permissions.
See what we are working with here
So every time I check it you see where user Admin
user Admin those are the copy of the current permissions
of , I have to do on another one we just get user. Now here
is where we say figure out if we need to remove or add this
permission.
So if the check box has a checked attribute on
it then we need to add it in.
So its just take the updated
permissions
and we push the new permission on to it which
was checkbox dot value
and you can see here if I have to
console log the updated permission. Now we should see that
that value is being added to our updated array so click
on Item Create , you see that the array is now 3 items but
we still doesn't update that box that because we have yet
to put that into State. So lets do that right now. So
this dot State we are going to update the permissions
part of State with our new updated array which is Updated
permissions.
So lets check that out now. If I check it you
see that now it checks but I am unable to actually remove
it, that's because we have to do the other part of this.
So we will do an else and say updated permission is equal
to update permissions dot filter. Wow BiquadFilernode that's
not what we want and we will just loop over all of the
current permissions and remove that one from the updated
permissions. So say permission
arrow function and we only
want to filer if it is does not equal to the current check
box values. So its the Permission not equal to the check
box dot value and what that will do is if we have an array
of users Admin and item Create and the one we UnChecked
was admin, its going to say , oh if it is admin take it away
from the array and then the updated permissions value
variable is what we have there.Now we should be able to
check it unCheck it. Oh little bit of an error, updated
permissions is read only. Oh that because I made this a
const, change that to a let. That's a perfect use case of
when you might want to use let and know it works
beautifully.Good. So lets triple check if we are going to
rec depth tools, search for the User permissions, look at
State for this user, now if I were to open up this one
we are looking for , looking for this one,
Now check it you see
these items are being pushed into State and then when I
remove them, you see that they being removed. So good. We
have got it working locally and the browser but if I were to
refresh, that's immediately gone because we have not yet
coded the mutation that's going to push these updated
permissions to our backend and that's exactly what we are
going to be doing in next episode. So I will see you then.